Testing testing testing a b c d a b c d e a b c d e
Testing some more 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 We're
testing and this is Monday the 26th testing
testing This is Mike Coconose. I'm sitting here
with Dr. Haskell Monroe.
Okay. And it's Michael? Well, I was baptized,
Michael, in a Greek Orthodox church. You're
right, but I go by Mike. I have a son named Michael.
Class of 43. Correct. To begin with, please
describe your family and their background. When
did they get to Beaumont? Who came and when? Tell me
about your background. I'm one of five children in
my father and mother's home. My father came to
Beaumont, Texas around 1905 from Greece. And the
reason he came here, he had two of his fellow
countrymen came to the Beaumont area, but they
were to LaBelle, Texas, which is about five miles
outside of Beaumont, and worked for the White's
Ranch. And actually they were cowboys, Greek
cowboys, and they loved it. They enjoyed it so much
they wrote my father and told him how good it was.
And so, Papa came to, landed at Galveston. and came
on into Beaumont and went to LaBelle and worked
about 30 days. And he said it wasn't for him. So he
came into Beaumont, and he and a couple other
friends of his from Greece opened up a restaurant
in the late teens. But before that, he did work as a
water boy out at Spindletop. There was a lot of
activity going on then after the 1901 Gusher,
Lucas Gusher. And so he came into Beaumont, opened
up the restaurant, went back to Greece, a place
called Epiros. There's a northern part of Greece
next to Albania. Spell that, Epiros. Epiros,
E-P-R-I-O-S, Epiros. And his hometown is Parga,
P-A-R-G-A. And he went and he promised my mother, I
get chill bumps when I think about it, I'd come back
and get you. And he did. who kept his word and my
father was a very honest and dedicated father.
Went back, married Mama, brought her to Beaumont
and started having children then. And then he had
to give up the restaurant during the Depression
and he went to work for Purity Bakery Company. He
was a bread salesman. He delivered and sold bread
to restaurants downtown Beaumont. He knew them
all and so they did it. And my father, in 1932, and I
don't know who was with him and I don't have any idea
how he did it, came to A&M. and saw in him and looked
it over. Saw all the military uniforms and
everything. And he came home, and I was about 12 or
13 years old, and he told my mother in Greek, this is
the college where I want our children to go. And I
heard him tell Mama that in Greek, and that's one of
the real reasons my older brothers came here. And
Mike Halbooty had some influence on Janelle, my
older brother. He was the class of 37. And Mike
Halbooty lived about half a block down the street.
His dad ran a very fine grocery store. This was in
the 20s and 30s. Now, Mr. Halbooty's background,
Lebanese? Lebanese. But Lebanese and Greek, that
was okay. That was fine. His father came from
Beirut, Lebanon, and his mother was half, the way I
understand it, was half Greek and half Lebanese,
and his father married her in Lebanon and brought
her into Beaumont, Texas. That's a very unique
family. I'm sure you probably know a lot more than I
do about it, but the youngest The youngest student
to attend Tulane Medical School was Mike's
brother, Manet. He was about 16 or 17 years old.
Anyway, they lived down the street and Papa
always, never said much after that about A&M
because my older brother went and so he figured
that was it. You went to Beaumont High School? I was
a graduate of Beaumont High in 1937. and I had an
offer of two basketball scholarships. One at
Baylor and one at A&M. The one at Baylor was very
great. It was a full-blown scholarship for four
years. My coach at Beaumont High was Raymond
Alford. He was an all-American a football player
and basketball player for Baylor. And he wanted me
to go to Baylor. And I had an offer from A&M, and it
was a part-time thing. They took one football
scholarship and split it five ways. And so they
offered me a scholarship. This is in 37. I couldn't
go to college. I couldn't leave home because Papa
was having a hard time two brothers were at A&M,
brother and sister at home, and Papa just
struggling. And so I stayed home and worked two
years, never kept a paycheck, never had a bank
account, anything. Every time I walked in with my
paycheck, here, Papa, and give it to him. And then
in 39, I enrolled at A&M and I went looking for my
scholarship and showed up. It was waiting for me.
They kept it. And that's why... Had you visited A&M
before coming up here to enroll? Yeah, I'd come up
and visit with my brothers, but it wasn't very
often because transportation was a problem.
According to When you got here, what did you think
about A&M before you actually arrived? Describe
your impression of it. Well, I never had any
negative feelings about A&M. They were always
positive because I was coming from a poor
neighborhood background to an institution that
served three meals a day and a shower. And I was
thrilled to death. And when I got to A&M, of course,
like the rest of us, we put on the uniform and No one
knew where you were from or and didn't care really
background when you came to enroll as a student.
How did you get here on bus or train or hitchhiker?
Rode the bus. Came to Beaumont from the bus. Papa
didn't have a vehicle. He had a bread truck. Barely
made it downtown and back to the bakery. No way we
could. Ride it and came on the bus. And then from
then on, hitchhiked back and forth to Beaumont. Do
you remember when you came up to enroll, what did
you bring? Clothing and what else? One small
suitcase. It was underwear and socks. Oh, I went to
a Tom McKinney shoe store, bought a pair of brown
shoes as I had to have brown shoes, bought that and
brought them with me. And that's about it. Did you
come by yourself or were there some others from
Beaumont that came on the bus together? I came by
myself. Sure did. And when you got off the bus,
describe getting from the bus to whatever
dormitory you needed. Well, they dropped us off at
Aggieland Inn, and we had to walk over to the core
area. The new core area. The new core area. No
grass, no trees, all sand, dust. And we walked in
there, and they had to go register. I'm trying to
remember now where we registered. I think it was
in...
Do you wear a gym? Anyway, one of those, we had to
register an assignment at Dorm 10, A battery,
field artillery. Now, how did that come about? Do
you know? I have no idea. I didn't ask for A, but I beg
pardon. I do know A battery because my brothers
were in it. And I wanted to be in the same battery
with them. But none of them were in school when you
got here? Yeah, Jimmy was. Oh, Jimmy. He had one
more year. He graduated in 1940. Did he come on the
bus with you? No, he was already up here. Oh, okay.
He was up here. Did any of your brothers give you any
advice before you came up? No, I can't
specifically say they advised me to do this, this,
or that, but I knew from the training I had at home
with Papa Mama said, I better do whatever the
authorities told me to do, and that's what I did.
And did your dad give you any advice or
instructions? He just said, study hard, don't
mess around, work. What did you think your major
was going to be? I started off in engineering. Then
I got into it, I didn't like it, and I switched over
to pre-med. And I got a degree in pre-med, Bachelor
of Science in Science.
Describe how you walked into that dorm and became a
part of that company. I walked into the dorm and
first thing I know they're hollering at me, get up
there on stoop four, it's where your room is. get it
up, get it in order, make your bed up and
everything, then come back down to stoop three, we
got to find some more instructions. They were
screaming, hollering at me when I walked in. And
did that outfit have a nickname? A battery did not
have a nickname. It did not. Describe your room,
the one that you were assigned to. I was assigned a
small a room in the dormitory and my roommate was
Charlie Babcock, Jr. And we had decided when we
left Beaumont we were going to room together. And
then walked in and it was just bare room. two desks,
two chairs, two beds, bunk beds, upper and lower,
and that
was about it. And were there a whole bunch of young
men arriving at about the time you did? Oh, yeah,
there was kind of a number of people coming in about
that time. I didn't know any of them. Didn't know
one. And describe what it was like the first days as
you're getting whipped into shape and part of the
Corps and going to class. Well, the first day I got
here, we didn't have class. It was, I think I got
here on a Saturday, and we had class Monday. My
schedule was already made up. And... And there was
a lot of hollering and get going, doing this, and
the sophomores were training us how to behave as
Aggies, and so it was pretty hectic over the
weekend. But when school started Monday, we went
right on into class. How did you register for
classes that first semester?
I'm trying to remember, it was, we went down, it
wasn't a DWARE gym either. They had the
registrar's office, it was located This is the
other side of the YMCA. And we went in there and
registered and selected the courses we needed. We
didn't have any trouble getting what you wanted
because there was how many, 7,000 of us were in
there, around approximately that number. So I
didn't have any trouble registering as an
engineer. And then I changed courses in December
and took the pre-med courses. That first
semester, were there some key courses you now look
back, realize that they were important, or any
instructors that were significant? Oh, yeah, I
can tell you about my English prof, Dr. Eckfeldt.
Never forget, what a marvelous person,
tremendous guy. Fred Eckfeldt. That's right. He
was an English prof. I was so impressed with him. We
walked into class and of course we're disciplined
now and pay attention and sit straight up. He
pulled out the roll And there was about 32 of us in
the class, or 30. And he called the roll and he said,
I want you to stand up when I call your name. Mike
Coconos. I stood up, sat down. Went right on down
the list. Then he took his list, put it aside, and he
went right down the roll and called everybody's
name. Wow. What an impression. Wow. And from then,
that day on, I was impressed with Dr. Eckfeldt. And
besides, he used to come holler at me when I was
playing basketball for A&M. So we became really
dear friends, dear friends. And I'm glad because
he was kind of like a model to me. about being in
scholastics and stuff like that. And
during that first semester, where did you study
and what kind of routine did you establish? Well,
the routine, I had to get up early and get
everything ready. Describe a typical day. A
typical day, I got up early, say at 5.30, get my room
in shape, and then I had to go down and get Mr. Neely
and Mr. Faust, get them up and ready to go to school
and get their room ready. And then I had to leave
earlier. I had to leave about quarter to 7 to go to
the mess hall because I was waiting tables at
Duncan Hall. And then after the morning
breakfast, then I'd go back and get my books and go
on to class and walk to class through the campus
wherever I was going to the chemistry building or
biology building or things like that. And I did the
same thing at noon. I'd come back, had to check in
with Reed Faust and Slim Neely and see if they
needed anything. And then normally we're in
school, and so they were seniors. They didn't
harass me or bother me. Then I'd go in the mess hall
and work the noon meal, and then had a 1 o'clock
class, and I'd go on to class, and then at 4.35
o'clock, I was told that I had to play football.
Since I had a basketball scholarship I had to play
all the sports. I said I never played football in my
life. I was a cheerleader in high school. They said
well you got to play. So I said okay. So I went out and
made the team, first freshman team. I weighed
about 165.
I played with Willie Zaplack and Dub Sibley and
that bunch. And then about halfway through the
season I was run over by Marshall Robnett and John
Kimbrough and it was just devastating to me. I
couldn't get up off the ground, off the gridiron.
And I walked off the field. And coach Norton was
hollering at me, come back here, come back here. I
couldn't hear him. But anyway, I asked them to
relieve me of football. And so they did. And I
concentrated on basketball. And then when I'd
come in from practice, go to the mess hall and work
the evening meal, eat, and come back to the mess,
come back to the dormitory. And we had
rehabilitation sessions, as you call them. And
then at 7 o'clock, though, everybody was in their
room studying. And I studied very late, taking a
science course like I did. During that first
semester, which were the toughest courses you had
to cope with? Chemistry. Chemistry. Who taught
that, do you remember? Dr. Potts. He was from the
Beaumont area. I didn't know him, but Dr. Potts was
my freshman chemistry prof. Now you mentioned
working at Duncan. How much money did you bring
with you when you left Beaumont to come to school?
Dr. Monroe, I don't remember bringing any money.
To be honest with you, I didn't have any money. And
actually, the money I made in the mess hall was
about $28 a month. The meal and laundry cost us $32 a
month. So I had to hustle up $3 or $4 more to pay for
the things that I was using. A&M took care of the
tuition, took care of the scholastic end of it, but
I had to do the other. So you were paying your
entire, you were hustling for the money? to pay
your entire way? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Let's see. And
during that fall, what kind of hazing was there in
your outfit? Well, it wasn't physical hazing.
that I want to put on record.
But it was typical fish, sophomore fish sessions
where they'd scream and holler at you and make you
do exercises and push-ups and
catwalk down the halls and come back. Did you all
retaliate with drown outs and tricks on the
sophomores or anything? Well, they did. I didn't
do much of that. For some reason I never got into
that or they never asked me to drown out anybody,
sophomores. Now we did have mustard, baby, where
you'd crawl on your, I didn't do it because I was
waiting tables. crawl on your hands and knees and
go to somebody's boots or put baby on their boots,
which is known as mustard. But I didn't do much
drowning out. My roommate did. Babcock did. Let's
see, and you learned all the nicknames for the
food. Right. And did you all have Cush questions
then? Or does that come later? I think I came later.
We didn't know about Cush. Well, see a Cush
question is something that happened later I
think. I'm a sophomore and I ask you a fish, a Cush
question. And if you don't get the right answer,
then you don't get any cushion. I get to eat yours,
and I ask you a question for which there is no right
answer. Whatever you say, I'll declare as wrong.
Yeah. No, we didn't have that. Did you and your
buddies get nicknamed? Did you have a nickname?
Yeah, I had a nickname. What was it? Iron Man. Iron
Man. Because I played 40 minute basketball
without relief and up and down the courts.
Describe that freshman year of basketball. Well,
it was... Who was the coach, and who were your
teammates? Coach McQuillan was the varsity
coach, and he looked after the freshmen, too.
That's E.E. McQuillan, is that right? No, no. Hub
McQuillan. Hub McQuillan. E.E. was a former
student. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hub McQuillan. Spell
McQuillan. M-C-Q-U... Same way you spell E.E.
McQuillan. Okay. M, capital M, small c,
Q-u-i-l-l-o-n, Quillon. Okay. He was the varsity
basketball coach. And in
the afternoons I was taking comparative anatomy,
biology under Dr. Potter. he was a biology prof and
he was our pre-med advisor and about 4 15 4 30 i would
fold up my cat that i was working on and put it in the
formaldehyde vat and he'd say mr coconuts where
are you going you're leaving early and i said i got
to go to basketball practice he says well you
better make a decision a choice you want to play
basketball or you want to go to medical school I
said, well, if I don't play basketball, I lose my
scholarship, have to drop out of school, probably
can't afford it. And he said, well, I'm sorry about
that. And he was really upset with me. But I
continued the course and graduated in it. But I'd
go play basketball and then after
basketball I had to wait on the training table. And
you waited tables in Sabisa or in Duncan? Duncan.
This is my fish here. Describe basketball
practice for freshmen. Well, we had our normal
drills and then we would scrimmage against the
varsity. And sometimes the varsity coach, Hub
McQuillan, didn't like what he saw out there. The
freshman was beating them. I had guys like Raymond
Clutch and Pete Watkins and Dawson and myself, and
we were a pretty good little group.
And we practiced against the varsity and did
pretty well against them. And that lasted about 7
o'clock, 7.30. So it was always late getting home,
getting to the dorm. And then after I got to the
Duncan Hall, waited tables for the training for
the athletes, ate my dinner and went back to the
dorm, sophomores all waiting for me. Boy, I mean,
they wouldn't let me get by with nothing. And so we
had our normal sessions and then I'd have to 7
o'clock or 7.30 I'd be studying. And how long did
you and your roommate study? Well, it was after
midnight. I had to get special permission to go
beyond 11 o'clock. And, of course, Reed Fowles and
Slim Neely always gave me permission. And I
studied pretty late. Charlie, in the meantime,
had to drop out of school. And I had a new roommate
named Bobby Woodham. He was an electrical
engineer. Now this is the second semester? Second
semester. And he was from the Beaumont area and he
went to Lamar University a couple of years and then
transferred to A&M. But he had to go through the
fish year like everybody else. And he stayed until
two, three o'clock in the morning. Now, were you
all allowed to have a radio in your room and have it
on? We had the radio, but it had to be turned off at 7.
Oh, okay. Did not play the radio. Strict study.
And you're on the fourth floor. Fourth floor. And
we'll call them stoops then. Yeah, that's right.
The, as you, as that first fall semester, did you go
on any out of town trips with, for football or
anything, or basketball or anything?
Did you go on the fall court trip? Yeah, we went to
TCU, Fort Worth. It was a court trip, and 12 of us
were in one room at the hotel, and we hitchhiked up
there and hitchhiked back. Describe Aggie
hitchhiking. Oh, that's a unique thing. I'll
describe going from A&M to Beaumont. How's that?
That's good. I'd get out on the highway in front of
the university here, and there's always a line.
you had to lay your bag behind the last bag that was
in line. You lay your bag down and you go get in line
and sit down. And the number one, two men were up
there thumbing the ride. When they got picked up,
then you move up, move up, moved up. And that went
through Houston, too. And I didn't have any
problems with the student hitchhiking, going to
from Houston to Beaumont because there weren't
many of us. But coming back I would, we went to
Washington Street and oh I can't remember the
name, I think it was Shepherd, Washington and
Shepherd. There was a Weingarten supermarket
there and we'd lay our bags up there. But then we had
others who upstreamed us. The word upstream is
somebody gets ahead of the group and gets up there.
Well, we didn't like that, and we would en masse go
up there and tell them, look, you're an Aggie? You
do like the rest of us Aggies. Get in line. Now,
where in Beaumont was the best place to get a ride?
Fourth and College. That was the outskirts of the
city. And you know, that's a unique thing with my
mama. Papa had this bread truck and he would always
take me to the Fourth and College and drop me off and
I'd wave, you know, after hugging them and kissing
them goodbye, and I'd wave bye. They wouldn't
leave. They wouldn't leave. They wouldn't leave
that area until I was gone. Because mama did not
want to leave me by myself out there. About how long
normally did it take to get a ride from between
College Station and Beaumont? How long did it take
you to? Well, it was longer between Houston and
Beaumont than it was from Beaumont from College
Station to Houston. But the full trip, could you do
it in six hours? Unless about five, five or six
hours. Describe some of the memories you have of
Aggie hitchhiking, some of the I had a very unique
occasion. I was coming from Main M to Beaumont and
this nice looking car stopped. Now this was in the
42 and the gentleman was in there and he said, where
are you going son? I said I'm going to Beaumont. He
said well get in, I'm going to Houston. I said,
fine, sir. So, of course, we were told to introduce
ourselves. I introduced myself. He said, my name
is Abercrombie. I said, nice to know you, Mr.
Abercrombie. And so we talked and visited and
talked and talked. And we get to Houston. He said,
you know what? I got nothing to do. I'll take you to
Beaumont. So he took me to Beaumont. Mr.
Abercrombie owned Abercrombie Oil Company in
Houston. A very fine person. And he told me, when he
dropped me off in front of my home in Beaumont, he
says, if you ever need a job, come see me." I said, I
sure will, Mr. Abercrombie. And of course the war
came and that disrupted a lot of things. But I think
that was one of the finest experiences I ever had of
hitchhiking. And I've had other Occasions with
people, but he impressed me so much, he and his
family. Did you ever have any bad experience
hitchhiking? No, not really that I can think of. So
far, no Aggie has passed on any bad ones. There have
been two or three that said, yes, the guy was
drinking a little too much, he was driving too
fast, nothing more than that. I didn't even have
any women occurrences at all. Nobody has
mentioned anything like that? Really? That's
really good.